MY SHELL USER MANUAL

INTRODUCTION:
    
    MyShell is an implementation of a Unix based shell program.
    The shell allows you to input several different commands to
    accomplish tasks within your unix based directory.

INVOCATION

    The shell allows for optional commands to be passed at runtime
    should you require running a batch script or a sequence of commands
    stored in a file.

    * To execute a batch script invoke the shell via the following syntax.
      Executing commands in this method will cause the shell to quit at end of file.

                        ./myshell batchfile
    
    * To invoke the shell to be given a prompt for user input, do the following

                            ./myshell

USER INPUT SHELL

    A shell invoked without batch file arguments will generate a prompt. Within this
    text entry field you are able to enter several commands from this library, as well
    as process commands with a variety of arguments. Another component of this prompt is
    your current working directory which is a file path that reveals where you are on your
    system.

                        Commands Include:
                            1. Change Directory
                            2. Clear Screen
                            3. List Environemnt Strings
                            4. Echo
                            5. Help
                            6. Pause
                            7. Quit

COMMAND LIBRARY

    1. Change Directory

        Command: cd
        
        Description: Change your current directory within the shell. A standard Unix directory
                     is made up of files and directories. Think of directories as folders or containers
                     for files you create.

        Usage: 
            cd .. -- This will move your directory up one level from its current status
            cd /Directory/ -- Here, Directory represents a directory that is visibile within the
                              scope of your function call. That is, it is within the directory that
                              is given by your prompt.
            cd ~ -- This will move back to your root or home directory, or the default

    2. Clear Scren

        Command: clr

        Description: Sometimes, you use a multitude of commands to accomplish a task, which can tend to
                     fill up your shell window, to see a fresh canvas, use this command.

        Usage:
            clr -- Clears the view

    3. List Environment Strings

        Command: environ

        Description: This will display variables invoked to this program at run time either by you or the system
                     that compiled it. Use it as a source for relevant information.

        Usage:
            environ - Prints environment strings to screen

    4. Echo

        Command: echo

        Description: This will display a comment on the screen for you, if you have text that you need to output
                     this is the way at which you will invoke it to be printed to screen.

        Usage: echo TEXT -- Here, the shell would print the word TEXT

    5. Help

        Command: help

        Description: Help displays the manual, which you are currently reading, this can help you learn more about the shell.

        Usage: help -- Launches manual

    6. Pause

        Command: pause

        Description: Pause will halt the system for an arbitrary amount of time, it is useful when running complex tasks or whenever
                     a break in processing is needed. You can end the pause by hitting the newline character or enter on most keyboards.

        Usage: pause -- pauses the syste until enter key is pressed

    7. Quit

        Command: quit

        Description: Quits the shell program and returns you to the environment in which this shell was invoked.

        Usage: quit -- exit or quit

ARGUMENTS

    Arguments can be passed to commands in the following manner, ensure each argument is seperated by white space

                    command arg1 arg2 -- Here command is passed 2 arguments to be used in processing
    
INPUT/OUTPUT

    Files can also be brought in as input for programs, functions, or commands or be used for output. The following will detail
    how this shell processes IO and how you can manipulate the shell to access your files.

        <    -- This symbol represents an input stream, whatever proceeds this value is deemed a file argument to be opened as
                input so long as it exists. To open file.txt the command would be < file.txt

        >    -- This symbol represents an output stream, whatever proceeds this value is deemed a file to be used for output.
                The file must exist within the working directory unless an absolute path is given. To output to file.txt command
                would be > file.txt. Beware, this will overwrite the contents of the file on your system.

        >>   -- This symbol represents output as well, except with this the proceeding file will be created if it does not already exist
                within the directory, this is useful in saving steps. Also this will append data to the output file rather than truncate and
                overwrite.

BACKGROUND PROCESSING

    Commands can be run in the background. The key feature with this is that as soon as a command is initiated the control returns to
    you, there is no wait for the process to end, you instantly have control over the shell to continue to make command requests.

    Executing commands in the background is accomplished by adding an & at the end of an eligible command, such as this.

                                                    ls &

PIPE PROCESSING

    Commands can be piped together. A pipe allows for processes to communicate with eachother. It allows for 2 commands to be run in the same
    command line. Should the results of one command be dependent on the expected results of another, use a pipe to team commands. Example below

                                                    cat out.txt | wc –l

                                    This will retrieve a word count of the items in out.txt



    